To the best of my knowledge the code here is an accurate reflection of 
the work I had done on August 18th.  However I was not aware of the 
submission policy that code written after that deadline was not to be 
included.  Given the fact that I did not realize this until the 26th I 
kept writing code till then.  In fact I have been writing code up until 
now and will continue as I work to finish my whole project and keep 
working with my organization.  Basically I was not keeping track of 
the exact version and place that I was on August 18th.  Some of the code 
included was written after that date.  To the best of my ability I have 
commented out the new code and restored the version that was working 
on August 18th.  However I have made a significant amount of progress 
since then as I have continued to work full time on my project.  My main 
reason for this was that my finals for school did not end until June 
9th.  I therefore got a two week late start and wanted to make sure I 
put the full amount of time into the program as expected.  

This is the BooleanMapper plugin for cytoscape that was made for a 
release of GenMAPP-CS. If you wish to use this software it will require 
that you also download cytoscape at www.cytoscape.org.  You can then 
just copy and paste the BooleanMapper.jar file into the 
cytoscape/plugins/core directory.  The next time you start up cytoscape 
you should see BooleanMapper under the plugins menu drop down.

If you wish to build this code from source you should know that 
I have been using ant to build my work and you will notice that an ant 
build.xml file is included.  If you have ant installed all that it will 
take to get this plugin up and running is to type 'ant' in your console 
in this folder.  That will automatically compile and jar all of the java 
files found in the src directory and copy that jar file over to the 
plugins/core folder that resides in the cytoscape folder.  If you want 
you could just compile all of the files in the src directory by hand, 
jar them and copy that jar file into the cytoscape/plugins/core 
directory.

This code was written for and with great help from the GenMapp 
and Cytoscape communities.  It is not likely that this code would have 
been written had it not been for the gracious and inspiring sponsorship 
from the Google Summer of Code program.

Steve Federowicz
9/6/08
